We have served that by Mr. Curtis Whiteley, entitled A People of his Own.
We'll get afternoon.
It is wonderful to be here as it always is on a
unusually warm December beautiful Sabbath day that we have 78 degrees on December 27th
Going down to probably
the thirties and forties in the next twenty four forty eight hours.
Typical Oklahoma.
But I want to start off today. I want to ask...
just a quick question.
and i've probably asked this question before.
and i want us just to think about i'm not going to call it anyone here but where does.
Our worth and value come from.
where do we get contentment at?
this is a question that i think that drives human instincts probably a little bit more than we realize because we live in a society.
and we tend as a society and we see it everywhere
we tend to measure our value and our worth.
and base our contentment in life on a myriad of external factors external things
oftentimes they're materialistic as well.
Money and income.
obviously are two obvious ones that typically we as a society.
seem to feel like that
brings value in worth or more value in worth based upon.
What that income looks like.
The possessions that we have,
The houses that we maybe have,
Maybe the clothes that we wear, the cars that we drive.
the places within our communities that we live in
employment success where we are at our jobs
Are we in positions of leadership? Are we in positions of...
supervision where we have people under us.
Fame, of course, and notoriety, many of which.
i've never had experience with.
and here's a new one that i was thinking about social media perception.
What do I mean by that?
Comparing
Ourselves and our lives to others. and that's a big one.
in this modern twenty first century age that we live in.
Social media comparison, meaning that you look.
100% upon social media, which many of you may, some of you may not, 100% on social media.
but we look at people's lives and we compare their lives with ours.
The vacations that they take.
the family they have, what their kids are doing versus what our kids or our families are doing.
The things that they get.
the engagement that they have within entertainment and the list goes on and on.
and of course we also measure our value and worth and i say we i'm just saying our society based upon abilities.
talents.
actresses and actors.
Professional athletes,
that make millions and millions of dollars, obviously.
maybe it's
intellect,
Our education, our looks,
We live in a very external
Society that.
Uses all of these
As a measure for our worth and our value.
And our value and our worth and significance
it's oftentimes even though people don't want to admit it
we tend to allow those ideas and concepts to be wrapped up
And how?
People in society view,
someone's worth.
And their value.
and in this society that we live in there seems to be a driving force
And motivation,
Not to be what our society may think as insignificant.
no one wants to be insignificant.
It's a word, this word, insignificant, that's defined as something that is too small or unportment to be worth consideration.
And when used to describe a person,
It means someone without power or influence.
There's probably not a better description.
For the word insignificant.
Then for the people of Israel,
Living in Egypt.
In the book of Exodus.
We read this about the people of Israel in Deuteronomy, chapter seven, verse seven.
we're gonna read verse seven but i wanna read verse six in a minute we're gonna kinda read seven then six we're gonna go backwards but it says this in reference to israel.
The Lord did not set his love on you, nor choose you, because you were more in number than any other people, for you were the least of them.
Of all these people.
What a definition of insignificant if we look at that definition of someone or a people group without power or influence, the least of all the peoples.
And interestingly, right before this, though, the
In Deuteronomy 7 verse 6, we read it says,
The same group that was the least of all the peoples,
It says, for you are a holy people to the Lord your God.
The Lord your God has chosen you to be a people for the Lord.
Him,
Self.
A special treasure
Above all the peoples on the face.
of the earth.
And of course,, in referencing Israel, we see many references like this about Israel being God's chosen people, and we know that that is a biblical truth.
and what's interesting about that.
is when we flip to the new testament.
1 Peter 2, verses 9-10.
We see Peter apply this.
To Christians.
He applies this Ah, this concept of God's chosen people, and.
Chapter two of First Peter, verse nine through ten, when he writes, But you are a chosen generation.
A royal priesthood.
A holy nation his own special people
That you may proclaim the praises of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light.
who once were not a people but are now the people of God.
Who had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. And many of these people that Peter was talking to,
It was a mix of probably Jews and Gentiles, some of which were not Gentiles.
By birth.
Bye.
Birthright a part of those promises that were given to Israel.
Peter, in this passage, is borrowing directly from the language that we find in the books of the Old Testament that were applied to Israel, especially.
In the book of Exodus,
Such as in chapter 19, verses 5 through 6.
but now he's applying it to the community of believers in christ.
and we could spend hours and days looking at the significance and we have we've heard messages.
on this.
grouping of passages, but that's of course beyond the scope of this short
Message. Message.
But there's one aspect that I want to draw our attention to.
in these two verses that Peter writes.
He says his own special people that you may proclaim the praises of him
Who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light?
Who once were not a people, but are now the people of God. And I like the way the New English translation.
translates this
Verse,
it says in that version a people of his own.
Which, of course, is where I've
gotten
The title of this message today.
Just recently, my mother-in-law,
She moved out of her house.
into a retirement home she lived down the street from us
about a mile and a half down the streets.
And this last week, my wife, my brother-in-law, he said,
My brother-in-law owns this house, and my father-in-law and my mother-in-law,
lived there in this house that he owned and.
Of course, they paid him rent, and it was a way for him to, you know
you know take care of his parents and of course my father-in-law passed away in twenty twenty-four.
but
this week he had to get everything out because he's getting ready to rent it out to another person
and so i've been over there helping clean out things throw things away.
and as you
as you know how this these things go.
ah this has resulted in my garage being full of all kinds of boxes and different things.
uh and maybe you can relate to this.
but in this endeavor which you know we we do go through as people we we have loved ones that pass away parents and.
you know obviously my my wife my my mother-in-law still alive and she's just moving into a retirement home but.
you know,
she has
forty plus years fifty years worth of things.
that she's accumulated, my father-in-law accumulated.
But there's a little bit of an analogy to this, because the reason.
You know why my garage is full, or I won't say full, some of it's my junk, but has new items in it,
Is because even though.
it may be things that i consider insignificant.
Our man, you may consider insignificant or junk, lest this be truthful.
To my wife, several of these items,
Are invaluable.
Why?
It's not because they have some significant monetary value to them. it's not because they're universally valued by everyone in the world.
It's not like it's gold or silver or anything like that, but rather the value is within.
Who
Owned.
Those items.
That's where the value comes from.
It's not in the item itself,
But it's in the ownership
Of the items.
Who used to have those items?
Where they came from.
From raggedy jackets and hats to rusty pocket knives.
Those items
Jump to us.
But have invaluable or invaluable
to my wife.
And of course, many of us can probably relate to this.
And different sentimental items that we have accumulated over the years and.
the background of those items. Oftentimes the value coming from
Where they themselves.
came from.
The same could be said of us as God's people.
our ordinariness has become extraordinary not because of ourselves but because who we have become children of.
And who we are.
That is a people
Of his own.
We belong to him.
and that's where our value comes from.
As the scripture tells us, we were once in darkness, but have been brought out of the darkness, a concept, of course, that Jews, as
Would look at and they would apply this to their
Deliverance from Egypt.
of course we have our own deliverance
and that deliverance has been made possible because of Jesus Christ.
And the sacrifice that he had.
That he paved the way for us to be grafted into this promise that the prophets foretold of, that we could become a people of his own.
you know when i was thinking about going back to like the way that society puts value and worth and.
we as human beings tend to wrap up our contentment in those different external
Materialistic items.
No matter how much money we have,
how much fame we have, how much influence we have.
No matter how much power,
It's never enough.
It can't.
Extend beyond.
This finite existence that we are living in today.
and so in itself
it's really an illusion.
it's an illusion of satisfaction
it's an illusion of contentment and value and worth.
because it's temporary.
The same powerful people
That live on this earth.
that are rich, that are wealthy, that have all the influence.
Can't take any of that with them.
In the grave.
Where everyone goes.
And Jesus oftentimes talks about
serving a god and being
In fear, in righteous fear.
Uh,
Not just those who could destroy the body.
But also the soul.
and so what we have here is we have this.
Magnificent
gift that's been given to us
it's not about us it's not about like we are the chosen people and we go and we tell people like hey look i'm better than you and i'm more significant than you because i'm a part of the royal priest
I'm a real priest to this chosen generation.
But rather our behavior
Should be.
What we're called to be.
that is living priests
And we know what the priests did. They were physical individuals that went around and sacrificed animals and,
You know, burned incense and had all of these rituals, which were just a symbol of what we are today. we're living priests.
We're not physically sacrificing anything.
but we're sacrificing ourselves our lives.
To follow after Christ.
we're being living sacrifices by proclaiming through our conduct through our speech
There are attitudes.
Through the light that we shine to the world.
That, of course, hopefully it is reflective of Jesus Christ.
So as I close this message, I just want to give everyone just a word of encouragement to just think and reflect upon the blessing that we have.
that.
sometimes we can feel like we're very insignificant in this life that you know we really don't matter.
and this world can try to pull us in and say like hey these are the things that are valuable these are the things that have worth.
But understand that we've been given one of the most.
Significant valuable gifts.
And having
Salvation through Jesus Christ.
an eternal life ahead of us in God's kingdom.
a position in god's kingdom not for authority and power and things like that but we have been given
The ultimate gift of understanding.
That true contentment within this life.
is
Understanding
How to be filled by Jesus. And that's the way that we get true contentment.
And we get to enjoy him for all of eternity.
He's called us.
a group of individuals human beings that have been created in god's image.
that ultimately finds full contentment
and God the Father and Jesus Christ.
His son.
And he's given us that gift.
that we get to enjoy for all eternity.
To God's glory.
So as I part
This message and close this message. I hope this just...
in times of doubt in times of insecurities that you reflect upon
The magnificence.
Of what god has presented to us
And the gift that he's given in us.
And being a part of that royal priesthood.
The royal servants,
That Jesus Christ and God the Father.